---
title: 'Why is Next.js so Popular to be known as React Framework for Production'
date: '2022-12-16'
image: why-nextjs-over-reactjs.png
excerpt:
  'NextJS is a the React framework for production - it makes building fullstack
  React apps and sites a breeze and ships with built-in SSR.Find out how ???'
isFeatured: true
isPopular: false
tag: 'Next.js'
frontend: true
backend: false
---

Next.js is a popular framework for building server-rendered React applications.
It offers a number of benefits and features that make it an attractive choice
for developers, but it also has some drawbacks that you should consider before
deciding to use it. In this blog, we'll take a closer look at the pros and cons
of using Next.js rather than just using React.js on its own.

One of the main benefits of using Next.js is that it makes it easy to build
server-rendered React applications. Server rendering can be beneficial because
it can improve the performance of your application by reducing the amount of
work that the client's browser needs to do to render the initial view. This can
be especially important for applications that need to support a wide range of
devices and browsers, or that have a lot of content that needs to be displayed
on the initial page load.

Another benefit of Next.js is that it comes with a number of features that are
designed to make it easier to build and deploy React applications. For example,
it includes automatic code splitting, which can help to reduce the size of your
application and improve its performance. It also has built-in support for
server-side rendering, which can make it easier to build applications that need
to support search engines and other types of web crawlers.

One potential drawback of using Next.js is that it can be more complex to set up
and configure than just using React on its own. Next.js requires the use of a
Node.js server, and you'll need to have some familiarity with server-side
programming in order to use it effectively. Additionally, Next.js has a somewhat
steep learning curve, and it may take some time to get up to speed with all of
its features and capabilities.

Another potential downside of using Next.js is that it may not be the best
choice for every type of application. If you're building a simple application
that doesn't require server-side rendering or other advanced features, you might
be better off just using React on its own. Additionally, if you're already
familiar with another framework or toolset for building server-rendered React
applications, you might prefer to stick with that rather than learning Next.js.

Overall, Next.js can be a powerful and useful tool for building server-rendered
React applications, but it's important to carefully consider the pros and cons
before deciding whether it's the right choice for your project. If you're
building a complex application that requires server-side rendering or other
advanced features, Next.js might be worth considering. However, if you're
building a simpler application or are already comfortable with another
framework, you might be better off just using React on its own.
