---
title: 'Why is Next.js so Popular to be known as React Framework for Production'
date: '2022-12-16'
image: why-nextjs-over-reactjs.png
excerpt:
  'NextJS is a the React framework for production - it makes building fullstack
  React apps and sites a breeze and ships with built-in SSR.Find out how ???'
isFeatured: true
isPopular: false
tag: 'Next.js'
---

![Benifits of using Next.js over react](why-nextjs-over-reactjs.png)

NextJS is a **popular framework of ReactJS** for building server-rendered
React.js applications. It offers a variety of features that make it easy to
build and deploy scalable, performant applications.

## key features of Next.js:

Server-side rendering One of the main benefits of Next.js is its ability to
server-side render React.js applications. Server-side rendering (SSR) is the
process of rendering a web application on the server rather than in the browser.

This has several benefits, including:

-Improved performance: Server-side rendering allows the initial rendering of the
application to be done on the server, so the client's browser can start
rendering the app faster. This can lead to a better user experience, especially
on slower devices or low-bandwidth connections.

-Better SEO: Search engines can have difficulty indexing single-page
applications (SPAs) because they rely on JavaScript to render the content.
Server-side rendering allows search engines to index the content of the app more
easily.

-Next.js makes it easy to server-side render your React.js application by
handling the server-side rendering process for you. All you need to do is write
your application using React.js, and Next.js will take care of the rest.

-Automatic code splitting Another feature of Next.js is its ability to
automatically split your application's code into smaller chunks, known as "code
splitting." This allows the client's browser to only load the code that is
needed for the current page, rather than loading the entire application at once.

-Code splitting can improve the performance of your application by reducing the
amount of code that needs to be downloaded by the client's browser. It can also
make it easier to develop and maintain your application by allowing you to break
your code into smaller, more manageable pieces.

-Next.js handles code splitting automatically by analyzing your application's
code and splitting it into chunks based on how it is used. You don't need to do
anything special to enable code splitting â€“ it's handled automatically by
Next.js.

## Serverless functions

Next.js also includes support for serverless functions, which are small pieces
of code that can be executed on-demand in response to a specific event.
Serverless functions are a great way to add dynamic, server-side functionality
to your Next.js application without the need to manage a server.

For example, you might use a serverless function to retrieve data from a
database or send an email. Next.js makes it easy to write and deploy serverless
functions by providing a simple API and integration with popular serverless
platforms like AWS Lambda.

## Static site generation

In addition to its server-side rendering capabilities, Next.js can also be used
to generate static sites. A static site is a website that is built using
pre-generated HTML files rather than being generated dynamically on the server.

Static sites have several benefits, including:

-Improved performance: Because static sites are pre-generated, they can be
served to the client's browser more quickly than dynamically generated sites.

-Better scalability: Static sites can handle a large number of requests without
the need for expensive server resources, making them more scalable than
dynamically generated sites.

-Simplified deployment: Static sites can be deployed to a variety of hosting
platforms, including static site hosting services like GitHub Pages or Amazon
S3.

Next.js makes it easy to generate a static version of your application using the
next build and next export commands.
